# elm-canvas sketch

Hi Mike! First off, sorry that this doesn't work. I really appreciate your effort in teaching and pushing me on conference and as a don, and I'm sorry that my work quality on this project doesn't reflect that. This has been a brutal semester mental health wise, let alone with all the pressures and struggles of school online during a pandemic. Definitely don't hesitate to grade and assess fairly. But I'm sorry I wasn't able to do any better on this.

That said, I wanted to write some about where I ran into a block at this project. I tried to make the Grid module as a purely abstract representation, and then make another visual representation of the grid in the Main module. I ran into a lot of trouble and confusion with the lack of where statements and list comprehensions in elm, since especially list comprehensions feel like one of the parts of Haskell that are most intuitive to me. I then tried to make it so that the Grid data structure stored both the renderable and the state, but then the functions handling it became so difficult to wrap my head around. The abstract functions in Grid.elm work, but the graphical display was really confusing. I feel like I struggled a ton with writing complicated functions that would make sense to me, particularly when conceptualizing continually referencing every element in an array of arrays without loops. The lack of side-effects in rendering also was a challenge for me in thinking about this. But ultimately these are things that I could have worked on and worked out if I spent more time on this from the beginning of the semester. So again, I'm sorry!

based on a template from an example sketch for the [elm-canvas](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/joakin/elm-canvas/latest/) library.
